.TH vgatest 6 "29 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vgatest \- makes basic tests on any svgalib graphics mode
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B vgatest

.SH DESCRIPTION
Mode test program. First the program gives a list of the supported
modes, then you enter a number and get a testimage in that mode.

The testimage consists of a sequence of crosses (in different colors,
if the mode support has different colors) in the top left corner.

Below you see three color bars red, green, blue with increasing
intensity from left to right. Depending on the capabilities of the
mode they are more or less jumpy (or smooth for true color).

In case of modes with 32K or more colors, six squares will appear
on top of that, each showing some different smooth color shades

It also shows some details from
.BR vga_getmodeinfo (3).

This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I demos/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I demos/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vga_getmodeinfo (3),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR bg_test (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR speedtest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
